SDLC: Software Development Life Cycle

SDLC says about the life cycle of a sotware product.The different phases of your software how is it developed.

For a proj to start first we need to have a feasibility study of the proj ---- Collect the requirement by bussiness analyst and approved by customer before it goes to design--- have a layout/Design of your s/w using flowcharts  and their functional relationship -- coding/Development where developers do their job and they do unit testing and mostly make reusable codes ---- Testing-check whetheryor pgm or product working properply.(Unit,Integration,load(how many plp u can can accomodate),UAT-User Acceptance Test) --- Deployment once you see your product is tested ok then its deployed in different layers done mostly when their is very limited users ---- operational/Maintainence help desk/support desk to support the customers for smooth running of the project.


Waterfall Methodology and relevence


Watefall method is a linear approach where you have top down step by step analysis. Where you first collect req -- design ---coding --testing ---maintenance(SDLC in sequence). So once you have completed the prdt then only the customer gonna see it so if they require any further alteration /adjustment in this method it cannot be done as its already finished its cycle. 
Its considered relevent because its the most easiest way to understand your product and its life cycle and it remains useful approach for certain types of projects with specific particularities.

Agile Methodolgy

Agile software development methodologies centered round the idea of iterative development and incremental process, where requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration between self-organizing cross-functional teams. Agile method helps to divide your project is divided into smaller iteration then do the same SDLC cycle and go for customer review so .The ultimate value in Agile development is that it enables teams to deliver value faster, with greater quality and predictablity, and greater aptitude to respond to change.Scrum and Kanban are two of the most widely used Agile methodologies.

Use Case:
Library System
Library Customer---register for books ,return book , query for availability 

Libarian---register for books,return books,query availability,new books update

Here when a person return books librarian should check whether its the correct one and when he ask for query he have to check and then return the answer and if its not the correct book that he is asking for again he have to do the same process.So here we use SCRUM

SCRUM:

Scrum suggests three roles: Product Owner, Scrum Master, and SRUM development Team; four ceremonies: the sprint planning meeting, Daily Scrum, sprint review meeting, and sprint retrospective meeting and three artifacts:, product backlog ,sprint backlog and product increment(final sprint goal)

SCRUM Master

A scrum master is the facilitator for an agile development team and he serves others and does decision making. His roles
1. Monitoring and tracking
2. Reporting and communicationg b/w the team
3. Process check master
4. Resolves the blocks and conflits.
5. Give performance feedback

Scrum Product Backlog

List of all things that needs to be done within the project. It replaces the traditional requirements specification artifacts. These items can have a technical nature or can be user-centric e.g. in the form of user stories where it gives the number of user stories for the product.

Sprint Backlogs

The sprint backlog is a list of tasks identified by the Scrum team to be completed during the Scrum sprint. During the sprint planning meeting, the team selects some number of product backlog items, usually in the form of user stories, and identifies the tasks necessary to complete each user story.

Sprint backlog Grooming

Grooming is a meeting of the Scrum team in which the product backlog items are discussed and the next sprint planning is prepared. Product grooming is critical in product management because it means keeping the backlog up to date and getting backlog items ready for upcoming sprints

Epic & Story in  SCRUM

An epic captures a large body of work that cannot be completed within a single iteration.So it can be broken down into a number of smaller user cases or stories.

Velocity in SCRUM

Velocity is a measure of the amount of work a Team can tackle during a single Sprint.

SCRUM Ceremonies.

Scrum ceremonies provide the framework for teams to get work done in a structured manner, help to set expectations, empower the team to collaborate effectively, and ultimately drive results. There are 4 SRUM Ceremonies: planning meeting,daily SRUM,sprint review meeting and sprint retrospective meetings.

Product Owner:

The primary goal in a Product Owner role is to represent the customer to the development team.He may be from your oranization or from product side.He is the centraal point of contact he is the planner and in fact, the Product Owner is the only person who can change the order of items in the product backlog.

How Jira board is effective in SCRUM.

The Scrum framework enables software teams to manage complex projects by creating a culture of collaboration. The Jira Scrum Board is the tool that unites teams around a single goal and promotes iterative, incremental delivery.

SCRUM and Waterfall

1. Scrum have room for changes in the story while Waterfall is a linear method where we won't be able to bring in changes once its done.
2. Scrum works well eventhough the proj scope is unknown/unclear in the begginning while Waterfall method needs a clear scope of the proj in the beginning
3. Scrum allow changes while Waterfall doesn't.
4. Customer availability is req for the entire proj. in SCRUM while in Waterfall req at beginning and the end part only.
5. Scrum decreases the risk of failure as its constabtly reviewed in between while in Waterfall the risk of failure is more if its doesn't set a clear scope.
6. Srum proj allows flexibility while Waterfall method is more of rigid type.












